{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Software Evolution (Outline)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 --- making changes / inspecting changes / assessing changes\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 I. Making Changes (Na is in charge)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	1. automated program transformation: refactoring is a subset of automated program transformation (source transformation languages and tools)\cb1 \
\cb3 	2. refactoring is a special category of automated transformation: refactoring practices (kim et al., emerson murphy hill, ralph johnson)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	3. systematic editing is another special category of automated transformation.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 II. Inspecting Changes (Miryung with some help from Tianyi)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	3. code reviews practices, since code reviews is a common context where change inspection happens (\cb1 \
\cb3 peter rigby) \'a0code flow, collaborators in industry. generally starting from code review practices, but 	\cb1 \
\cb3 4. program differencing (going to back history of differencing, diff, AST diff, CFG diff, PDG diff.--- mention its symmetric problem of clone detection)\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 5. go deeper for a few techniques that help with change comprehension: kim et al. critics, chris bird at MS\cb1 \
\
\cb3 III. Assessing Changes (Miryung => Na) \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	5. debugging and testing with focus on changes: delta debugging\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	6. regression test selection / change impact analysis\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 (I haven't really followed up recent work on this.)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	(broadly lingming's work, fault tracer, milos' work on regression testing)\cb1 \
\cb3 Miryung will add: delta debugging Mary Jean Harrold + Alex Orso, Fault Tracer,\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Na will supplement later work on change impact analysis regression testing. \'a0\cb1 \
\
\cb3 IV. Future Directions & Open Problems.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 ----I am not personally sure whether IV is needed or how much space we will have.\'a0\cb1 \
\
\cb3 IV. A case of software evolution with focus on duplication. \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	1. "Making changes" to code clones. e.g. LASE\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	2. "Inspecting changes" to clones e.g., CRITICS\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 	3. "Assessing changes" to code clones e.g., Clone Genealogy, Grafter (Tianyi's work)\'a0}